# Capstone

Executive Summary:
The goal of this capstone project was, broadly, to deliver insights into Russian troll activity on Twitter, roughly surrounding the 2016 election. The data was delivered by FiveThirtyEight, who got it from Clemson University, who gathered it from Russia’s Internet Research Agency. My specific aim was two-pronged. 1) Answer the Who, How, When, Where, and Why of what these trolls were attempting to perform and 2) Apply advanced machine learning methods on this robust dataset in order to better understand internet behavior.

This repo is divided into four parts. The Exploratory Data Analysis section is where I try to answer the first portion. I analyze the troll users and contents in order to detect trends in behavior. The two sentiment analysis notebooks involve me training a neural network on other sets of data, and then running the troll tweets through. These are a positive / negative classifier and a toxicity classifier. Finally, I tried to use unsupervised learning via clustering to determine whether an algorithm could replicate the labels that researchers Linvill and Warren created through more human analysis.

In terms of findings, the EDA portion reveals what many data journalists already tackled. Trends indicate Russians had a sophisticated understanding of American twitter culture and an ability to ride political currents. The Positive / Negative sentiment classifier was largely ineffectual. The nuances of modern political tweeting did not carry over well from the Sentiment140 dataset the model was trained on. The toxicity classifier performed much better, with its multi class functionality. Finally, the k-Means clustering was not nearly as intuitive / distinct as what the Clemson researchers identified as account types based on Tweet content. This was largely anticipated by myself, as I feel - as advanced as ML algorithms can be - nothing beats domain expertise and human understanding (yet).
